---
layout: post-no-feature
title: Interrogating and visualizing connectivity
description: 
category: articles

---

I am motivated by two semi-anecdotal postulates about globalization and technology. The first is that the internet has made the world more connected, thus ushering globalization to unprecedented levels. And the second regards food, namely that the proliferation of McDonald’s franchises around the globe has led to cultural homogenization. I intended to interrogate and visualize both this claims in order to investigate who is really affected by connectivity. It is said that only about 51% of the world’s population is connected to the internet, leaving 49% “out of touch”. If we think just a bit deeper we know that out of this 51% not only internet speeds are not consistent throughout the board, but many people can access the internet only through smartphones. How does their experience vary and how can we visualize this? Moreover, is internet connectivity homogenous? Or does it make more sense to talk about the internet in terms of continents? What’s the Russian Facebook, what about the Chinese one? McDonald’s on the other hand, has become yet another shorthand for connectivity and global homogeneity. But does this homogeneity extend to culture and production or does it only remain at the level of corporate executive making? Are all McDonald’s the same and does this matter? Our models of empire are often stuck on the Roman model, which had a strong legal code for incorporating subjected peoples. Imperialism’s legal codes however are not equipped to usher cultural homogeneity. Culture is preserved to some extent, but production and distribution is centralized and coded far away from the periphery. By analyzing and visualizing this two concurrent narratives of connectivity, I intend to show how the internet is divided up into continents and how McDonald’s far from being a homogenizing cultural force bends to the arm of local cultural tradition. Both begging the question, what is the actual homogenization that is going on? 
