---
layout: post
title: "Better Dreams for a Better World"
category: articles
---

Mark Weiser’s vision of the computer fit for the 21st century is shaped by three intersecting anxieties. These are human psychology, the interconnectedness of computers, as well as its derivative concern, that of privacy.  His strand of thought is perfectly bounded by its antithesis: artificial intelligence. Weiser argues that the computer for the 21st century should step out of its hermetic boundaries and interact with the human world in a way that positively enhances it, rather than take the route of artificial intelligence with its simulated and self-referential worlds. The vision of computers as integrated within the fabric of reality, rather than constantly shaping this very fabric is one that we can confirm has not been positively realized. The hermetic laptop is stronger than ever and tablets par excellence such as iPads have developed along individualized identities and significance. And on the other end, the antithetical development of artificial intelligence has proliferated to such a rate that it currently “cures” chickens suffering from industrial depression and prevents them from taking their own lives. 
On Weiser’s part this is not as a much a failure to predict because he is ultimately advocating for a vision of how the computer should develop. Rather the failure is precisely in this aspect of active world-making. For example, when touching upon the interconnectedness of computers he envisions a quite interesting world as shaped by his bedrock concept of “embodied virtuality,” which has as its most rudimentary concern developing technology to accommodate and facilitate human needs and behavioral patterns. He explains how tabs, pads and boards can be digitized and collectivized as to allow use for and by anyone that has access to them. Instead of it being Elio’s iPad it would be the pads that are used in this room or building and that in turn can be attached or communicate with other devices. To some extent we see this with Apple devices, for one of their most interesting and useful aspect is the ability to communicate with each other, think here of AirDrop, AirPlay, the integration of notes from device to device, iCloud etc. But all of these features are unusable unless you have an Apple TV, laptop, computer and phone. When the development of these vision is left at the hands of industry, because of market competition there will always be a tendency towards monopolization which severely limits the true interconnectedness of computational technology. 
This brings us to Weiser’s third anxiety, which derives from the previous one and best exemplifies the failure of his imagination. He notes how increased interconnectedness would rightfully raise concerns about privacy and notes how it could actually lead to more transparency and thus reshape our views on privacy itself. However, on threat still looms large: “Not only corporate superiors or underlings, but overzealous government officials and even marketing firms could make unpleasant use of the same information that makes invisible computers so convenient.” This is the most unfortunate failure of Weiser’s imagination, for if governments and corporations have this tendency to enclose spaces and movements within them according to logics that ultimately lead to their self-interested empowerment, perhaps the problem is precisely with capitalism and the state. Perhaps it is capitalist and the state that have vested interest in not realizing this truly open and collective world through computing. The appeal of artificial intelligence is clear in this regard, for it can make depressed and malnourished CHICKENS! Forgot about the psychological tolls of the industrial landscape. An individualized machine makes it so that you cannot seek anything but pleasure, consider how even when taking an evening stroll we feel the need to justify it according to some metric: how much satisfaction it brought us and what that meant for the rest of our productive time. There’s a way in which human beings have stopped being the reason for things and things have taken up their own reasons. This is exactly what Weiser was attempting to prevent but by not identifying the agents that have carried this movement forward his analysis suffers from a failure of imagination and needs to dream bigger, because the connection between dreams and reality is much more real than one would intuitively think.  
