---
layout: post-light-feature
title: The Big Misconceptions About Big Data
description: Response to "Everybody lies: how Google search reveals our darkest secrets"
categories: articles
2017-09-19
image: 
        feature: soft-trees.jpg
---

We cannot treat Google as anything else but a tool. While it is true that Big Data has a repository of information big enough to classify us according to neat identity groups, we should question wheatear such strict identity groups are truly beneficial for the flourishing of harmonious social welfare. We should ask who benefits from strict and rigid identities; are people easier to control when we are one particular thing? Nowhere is this clearer in Seth Stephens-Davidowitz’s article then in the following quote: Some men are bisexual; some – especially when young – are not sure what they are. I wonder about the significance of the word what here. What is the difference when we replace it with who? What signifies objectivity, it denies the experiences of those individuals and collectives that do not even confine to the gender binary and see sexuality as a more fluid affair. In this sense, people are trying to figure out who they are and this is influenced by myriad factors. Where did you grow up, where do you currently live, what were your role models growing up and according to me most importantly what was your socio-economic background? All these questions define a who and while it is much easier to relate to what than to who, that is precisely our challenge. Google and the Big Data it provides are skilled reductionists and in many instances great at coming up with surface level explanations. One point where I completely agree with Davidowitz is the landscape of racism in the United States. Whereas we see significant research and plausibility for the theory of implicit bias, this does not even scratch the surface of the situation. Racism is still institutionalized in myriad ways and look no further than urban poverty for that. Look no further than urban and rural policing. Black people in the United States have historically been affected by perverse mortgage policies and we have all seen hoards of white neighborhoods protest tooth and nail the emergence of affordable housing units in their neighborhoods, against people “not of the same class as them.” My personal belief is that Big Data can be very useful to make inferences and point us to certain directions, but it is not enlightening in any way and most certainly it is not the most important data set ever collected on the human psyche. We have all seen white people protesting against affordable housing units in their neighborhoods, HBO even made a mini-series on the case of Yonkers some approximate 20-30 years ago. For decades, social science and research has had theories and methods of collecting data that have correctly reflected the situation on the ground. The lack of political will interesting with strong interests against truly popular policies is what is truly holding us back. Let us not forget that the Intern has a largely American face and even though used in other languages and countries it reeks of American biases. Consider here the so called “Twitter Revolution,” a particularly deceitful phrase. While it is true that Twitter and Facebook were largely used in the Arab Spring to mobilize protests that does not show any inherent democratic quality of these mediums, merely their democratic potential (at best, even that claim is dubious because the internet is not an egalitarian space). What sparked the protest was the killing of Mohammad Atta, a street vendor, whose conditions of working and living reflected with the challenges that many people in that region and the world experience. It was then the actual movement of the people through the streets that drove the revolution, much like the French one etc. The point of this example returns to the beginning of this post, the Internet is just a tool and in many ways the extensive data it provides can give us quite interesting information, but I wonder how much of that information is just that, interesting, but somehow presented as transcendental data that can describe the human condition. At best, it can describe the American condition and the westernization of the world and even then we best remember that social science has done quite well with very small data sets, just like revolutions have happened way before Twitter.
