---
layout: post
title: "For Whom the Bell Tolls"
category: articles
---

Human beings have stopped being the reason for things and things have taken up their own reasons. This is the underlying horror in James Bridle’s Something is wrong on the internet. Algorithms are not build to respond to insights of human behavior, but rather human behavior is becoming increasingly responsive to algorithms. “This is content production in the age of algorithmic discovery — even if you’re a human, you have to end up impersonating the machine.” Titles that are more like automated keyword soups do not only improve the search ranks of a particular video, but most importantly they serve as didactic mechanisms that teach the user where to get more of this same stuff. It is a quite effective feedback loop and without a doubt it is driven by capital’s accumulative circuits, inducing us towards what to desire and then selling us these very desires. The marriage between capitalism and technology was made in heaven, two systems that run on impersonality and utter indifference to the human as such are quite good at amplifying each. James Bridles article largely unravels within the sphere of kids videos, from open surprise eggs in front of a webcam to the more horrific and violent results of automated animated content. However, there is an apt disclaimer at the end of the article: this is not happening just to the world of kids, our desires are being dictated, assembled and then sold to us in exogenous locations. Why then focus on kids for most of the article? To Bridle the problem is capitalism itself and the machine that we have built and cannot control, legislation is futile for the machine is way more intricate than we can even comprehend. Focusing on kids follows an age old formula of tolling the bells of social alarm, look at what is happening to the powerless and moreover, they are the future so they remind us all that even the future is powerless. I would not dare argue however, that kids growing up in this environment are at a very different and precarious developmental setting than most of what we’ve seen during human history.   
